build-tools
-----------
This directory contains the following utilities used for building CASINO:

- make-wrappers:   creates wrappers around binary utilities so that one can
                   switch CASINO_ARCHs and still run the correct binary without
                   changing the PATH variable.  This tool is intended to be
                   invoked from utils/Makefile after completing compilation.

- release:         if invoked by a maintainer, performs all tasks involved in
                   publishing the current git HEAD, including a tarball,
                   changelogs, manual, etc, plus the git-push to the main
                   repository.  If invoked by non-maintainer developer, creates
                   a tarball containing the current git HEAD under the user's
                   home directory.

- update-version:  regenerates the contents of the VERSION and DIARY files
                   using information from git.  This tool is intended to be
                   invoked from the global Makefile, from src/Makefile and from
                   build-tools/release.

- f90wrap:         wraps around F90 compilers in order to correctly handle
                   .mod file dependencies, allowing, among other things, to
                   skip unnecessary compilations which a plain Makefile system
                   would not be able to do easily.  This tool is intended to
                   be invoked by src/Makefile.

- pdf-compiler:    wraps around pdflatex in order to automate running multiple
                   pdflatex iterations, and to buffer the output which is only
                   displayed in the event of encountering errors.  This tool is
                   intended to be invoked by manual/src/Makefile.

- update-makefile: regenerates CASINO Makefiles by analysing the dependencies
                   of the .f90 files in a directory.  This tool is intended to
                   be run by hand by developers.  Notice that CASINO Makefiles
                   have special format to allow using this script.

- winwrap:         wraps around F90 compiler invocations under CYGWIN, handling
                   pathname conversions etc.  This tool is intended to be
                   invoked by src/Makefile and the Makefiles under utils/.

PLR 05.2011
