> Hello,
>
> I'm a student of Richard Hennig's, and he and I have begun a QMC study of
> zinc oxide using CASINO and your Dirac-Fock pseudopotentials.  We're
> having some problems with them, and we were wondering if you'd seen the
> issue before or might have some other insight.
>
> In particular, we've converted the potentials into UPF format (which uses
> the Kleinman-Bylander scheme) in order to generate orbitals using PWSCF.
> For this conversion, we used the tool ppconvert by Ken Esler.  It can
> generate the KB projectors either from the HF AWFNs or by solving the
> pseudo atom itself using LDA.  In both cases, the converted Zn potential
> has ghost states -- the excitation spectrum has low-lying, nonphysical
> states which make the potential useless for performing calculations.
>
> We realize that this is likely an artifact of the conversion process and
> not an issue with the potentials themselves, but we were wondering if you
> had perhaps come across the issue before or had any suggestions on how to
> proceed.
>
> By the way, would this sort of question be better sent to the CASINO
> mailing list?  If so, Mike, would you mind adding both myself and Prof
> Hennig (rhennig@cornell.edu) to the list?
>
> Thanks.
>
> Best regards,
>
> Will Tipton

Date: Thu, 12 Nov 2009 15:03:04 +0900
From: John Trail <jrtrail@jaist.ac.jp>
To: William Wakefield Tipton Jr <wwt26@cornell.edu>
Cc: Richard Needs <rn11@cam.ac.uk>, Mike Towler <mdt26@cam.ac.uk>
Subject: Ghost states and Pseudopotentials

Hi,

  The issue has appeared before, especially with 1st row transitions. As you
suggest, it is an artifact of the conversion process. Below are some notes
on the issue, which describe the solution. Cannot be more specific about the
ppconvert code (never used it), but have converted 1st row transition metal
HF pseudopotentials to KB form for PWSCF runs, and found they work fine if
done with the 'best choices' described below. Let me know if you this sorts
out the problem or not.

Best wishes,
  John

------------------------------------------------------------------
Dr John Trail
Maezono group
School of information Science
Japan Institute of Science and Technology,
1-1 Asahidai, Nomi, Ishikawa, 923-1292
Tel:+81-761-51-1294
Fax:+81-761-51-1296

Ghost states for HF pseudopotentials converted to KB form
----------------------------------------------

Most plane-wave codes use a kleinman-bylander form, so a conversion from
norm-conserving to kleinman-bylander must take place. The two forms are not
equivalent, and this is the source of the problem. It is soluble.

Primary issue is that when a norm-conserving pseudopotential is converted to
KB form, ghost states can appear. This is true for KB pseudopotentials in
general, but HF pseudopotentials are particularly vulnerable due to the fact
that some channels can be very 'deep' when compared to KS-DFT
pseudopotentials.
If a deep channel is used as the local part of the pseudopotential then the
KB projector representation that the other channels are converted into may
not be accurate enough for electrons to be repelled sufficiently. This gives
an overly attractive pseudopotential that binds some states that should not
be bound states at all - the ghost states. Effectively, some of the the
strongly attractive local channel 'leaks' into the approximate
representation of other weakly attractive channels.

The first row transitions are particularly vulnerable to this, and Zn is
probably the most vulnerable as it possesses the deepest d-channel (see the
figure on the web page).

The solution is to make good choices for the extra data supplied to the
conversion process (in addition to the pseudopotentials themselves). A
conversion from norm-conserving (in whatever representation+file format) to
KB requires the pseudopotential file itself, but it also requires a choice
of local potential, and a choice of projector pseudowavefunctions. Some
choices for Zn are:


1) Easiest choice:
pseudopotential file    : pp.data, pp_gaussian, or pp_gamess
local-channel           : d (this is the easiest choice to make, and
implicit in the pseudopotential files)
projectors                      : awfn.data_d10s2_1s, or ground state DFT
calculation

 This is a bad choice because the d-channel is very deep, and the p-channel
is thrown away as no projector is provided for it. This means that there is
a very strongly attractive contribution from the p-channel that should not
be there and that will almost certainly result in a ghost state. More
subtly, the KB representation of the s-channel is probably not accurate
enough to prevent this channels introducing ghost states as well.

2) Best choice:
pseudopotential file    : as above
local-channel           : s
projectors                      : d from awfn.data_d10s2_1s, p from
awfn.data_3d104s14p1_3P (you can make a new awfn.data file for the converter
by combining and editing
                                        these two files, sd from the first
file, p from the second) or equivalent GS and excited state calculations in
DFT

This uses the considerably more shallow s-channel as the local part, so
prevents ghost states appearing. Since a p-projector is also supplied, none
of the supplied pseudopotential channels are ignored.

3) Next best after (2):
pseudopotential file    : as above
local-channel           : s
projectors                      : awfn.data_d10s2_1s, or GS DFT calculation

Prevents ghost states, but the p-channels is ignored.

4) Next best after (3):
pseudopotential file    : as above
local-channel           : p
projectors                      : awfn.data_d10s2_1s, or GS DFT calculation

Prevents ghost states, but the local part is not from a ground state. It
should be.


Rules of thumb are that:
 Choosing the most shallow channel as the local part is a good idea.
 Choosing the deepest channel as the local part is a very bad idea.
 It's best not to throw away pseudopotential channels in the conversion
process, especially if the local channel is deep.
 A useful test is a cheap and quick isolated atom PW calculation, to see if
the energies look ridiculous.


Small-core pseudopotentials
---------------------------
 For the first row atoms small-core pseudopotentials are available on the
web page. These include the 3p subshell as valence. Although this means 6
more electrons/atom, they will often be a better choice because:

a) The 3p electrons are physically more like valence electrons than core
electrons - they aren't frozen.
b) The resulting pseudopotentials are more shallow. For plane-wave
calculations this reduces the required energy cutoff a lot, and improves the
convergence stability considerably.
c) Since they are more shallow, they are less vulnerable to ghost states.



